# 📓 3. DNS

## **DNS Basics**

DNS (Domain Name System) is a system that defines hierarchical names for computer, services and other resources of the network. The DNS protocol is a client/server protocol in which the server listens on ports 53/UDP and 53/TCP.

```bash
# DNS ports:
          .---
 DNS ---> | 53/UDP|TCP
          '---
```

DNS in mainly used to resolve the DNS name of a computer to its IP address.

```bash
# DNS query to resolve name:
    client                     DNS server
    .---.   A hackliza.gal?     .---.
   /   /| ------------------>  /   /|
  .---. |                     .---. |
  |   | '   185.199.111.153   |   | '
  |   |/  <------------------ |   |/ 
  '---'                       '---'
```



Apart from resolve names, DNS allows to perform other actions like mapping an IP to its name or resolving the aliases for a name. The client can perform different queries that the server will try to answer. In order to do this, the DNS servers keeps a collection of [different records](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_DNS\_record\_types). Some types of records are the following:

* **A**: Maps a DNS name to an IPv4.
* **AAAA**: Maps a DNS name to an IPv6.
* **CNAME** (Canonical Name): Maps a DNS name known as alias to the original DNS name.
* **DNAME**: Maps a DNS subtree.
* **NS** (Name Server): Indicate a DNS server for a domain.
* **PTR** (Pointer): Maps an IP address to a DNS name (reverse lookup).
* **SOA** (Start of Authority): Contains administrative information about the DNS zone, such as the main DNS server or the mail of the administrator.
* **SRV** (Service): Indicates the host and port of a service.

```bash
# Resolve DNS servers of wikipedia.org with dig:
root@debian10:~$ dig NS wikipedia.org

; <<>> DiG 9.16.6-Ubuntu <<>> NS wikipedia.org
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 56753
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 3, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 65494
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;wikipedia.org.			IN	NS

;; ANSWER SECTION:
wikipedia.org.		6704	IN	NS	ns1.wikimedia.org.
wikipedia.org.		6704	IN	NS	ns0.wikimedia.org.
wikipedia.org.		6704	IN	NS	ns2.wikimedia.org.

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.0.53#53(127.0.0.53)
;; WHEN: jue dic 03 10:14:07 CET 2020
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 106
```

All of this records can be maintained by a DNS server (usually in a [text file](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/12/html/Deployment\_Guide/s2-bind-zone-examples.html)) in order to provide information for its DNS zone.

### **DNS zones**

DNS is hierarchical and it is divided in zones. Each zone keeps the records for a domain and its subdomains, with the exception of those subdomains that have their own zones. For example the contoso company could have the two following zones:

```bash
# Zone contoso.com:
contoso.com
mail.contoso.com
www.contoso.com
```

```bash
# Zone internal.contoso.com:
internal.contoso.com
it.internal.contoso.com
admin.internal.contoso.com
hr.internal.contoso.com
```

Each DNS zone is managed independently. This way it is easier to keep an order of the records. There are many different DNS zones all over the internet, each one for different domains and organizations. Therefore, DNS servers needs to communicate among them in order to provide information of other zones. For example, if you want to know the `www.contoso.com` IP address, your DNS server needs to communicate with contoso authoritative DNS server, that manages the contoso.com zone, in order to retrieve this information.

### **DNS exfiltration**

INSERT LINK TO: DNS 53 - Dns Exfiltration

### **Fake DNS server**

INSERT LINK TO: DNS 53 - DNs exfiltration

### **DNS Zone Transfer**

INSERT LINK TO: DNS 53 - DNS Zone Transfer

### **Dump DNS records**

INSERT LINK TO: DNS 53 -> Dump DNS records

### **ADIDNS**

Therefore, DNS is a pretty useful protocol, and of course, is used in Active Directory. The Active Directory implementation is ADIDNS (Active Directory Integrated DNS), where the role of DNS servers is mainly assumed by the DCs (Domain Controllers), since their databases contains the DNS names of the computers in the domain and the rest of DNS records. In Active Directory, the DNS is the preferred method to resolve names. The order of preference of resolving protocols is:

1. DNS
2. mDNS
3. LLMNR
4. NBNS

ADIDNS works similar to any other DNS implementations, but includes some special characteristics.

The main difference with other implementations is that DNS records are maintained in the Active Directory database, instead of using a text file. In this way DNS records are integrated like any other object, and take the advantage of Active Directory Domain Services such as automatic replication without requiring DNS zone transfers.

There DNS records can be stored in one of the following locations in the database:

* DomainDnsZones partition: This partition is replicated in the DCs of the domain. Records can be accessed through LDAP in the route `CN=MicrosoftDNS,DC=DomainDnsZones,DC=<domainpart>,DC=<domainpart>`.
* ForestDnsZones partition: This partition is replicated in all the DCs in the forest. Records can be accessed through LDAP in the route `CN=MicrosoftDNS,DC=DomainDnsZones,DC=<domainpart>,DC=<domainpart>`.
* Domain partition: In legacy systems, the DNS records where stored in this partition that it is replicated in the DCs of the domain. Records can be accessed through LDAP in the route `CN=MicrosoftDNS,CN=System,DC=<domainpart>,DC=<domainpart>`.

For example, to access the DomainDnsZones partition through LDAP in `contoso.local`, the route would be `CN=MicrosoftDNS,DC=DomainDnsZones,DC=contoso,DC=local`.

As one of the special characteristics, apart from the usual DNS records, ADIDNS maintains [special SRV records](https://petri.com/active\_directory\_srv\_records) that allows to find certain resources in the network. This allows us to identify the DCs by querying to one of the following SRV records:

* `_gc._tcp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_kerberos._tcp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_kerberos._udp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_kpasswd._tcp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_kpasswd._udp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_ldap._tcp.<DNSSDomainName>`
* `_ldap._tcp.dc._msdcs.<DNSDomainName>`

These records points to servers that provides Global Catalog (\_gc), Kerberos (\_kerberos and \_kpasswd) and LDAP (\_ldap) services in Active Directory, which are the Domain Controllers.

For example, you can get the DCs of `contoso.local` from Windows with `nslookup -q=srv _ldap._tcp.dc._msdcs.contoso.local` and from Linux with `dig SRV _ldap._tcp.dc.contoso.local`.

```powershell
# DNS query to identify DCs with nslookup:
PS C:\> nslookup -q=srv _ldap._tcp.contoso.local
Server:  ip6-localhost
Address:  ::1

_ldap._tcp.contoso.local        SRV service location:
          priority       = 0
          weight         = 100
          port           = 389
          svr hostname   = dc01.contoso.local
_ldap._tcp.contoso.local        SRV service location:
          priority       = 0
          weight         = 100
          port           = 389
          svr hostname   = dc02.contoso.local
dc01.contoso.local      internet address = 192.168.100.2
dc02.contoso.local      internet address = 192.168.100.6
```

It is also posible to get the IPs of DCs by resolving the domain name `<DNSDomainName>`. Additionally, the primary DC can be discovered by querying to `_ldap._tcp.pdc._msdcs.<DNSDomainName>`.

### **DNS dynamic updates**

INSERT LINK TO: DNS 53 -> DNS dynamic updates
