# ⚒ 4. NetBIOS

[NetBIOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NetBIOS) (Network Basic Input/Output System) is an OSI Session Layer 5 Protocol (and it is not related with the computer BIOS). It was developed in 1983 to allow applications in the same LAN (Local Area Network) to communicate between them. NetBIOS became very popular and used by many different applications, however, it was not able to communicate them on different networks. Therefore, in 1987, the [NBT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NetBIOS\_over\_TCP/IP) (NetBIOS over TCP/IP) protocol was created ([RFC 1001](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1001) and [RFC 1002](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1002)) to make NetBIOS work over TCP and UDP protocols and allow applications that used NetBIOS to communicate over internet.

It is divided in three services, one, the NetBIOS **Name Service**, used for resolving the NetBIOS names, and two services, NetBIOS **Datagram and Session**, for transporting messages (similar to TCP and UDP).

```bash
# NetBIOS ports:
                       .-----
                       |
     .------.        .---
     | NBNS |--UDP-->| 137
     '------'        '---
                       |   
    .-------.        .---
    | NBDGM |--UDP-->| 138
    '-------'        '---
                       |
    .-------.        .---
    | NBSSN |--TCP-->| 139
    '-------'        '---
                       |
                       '-----
```

**NetBIOS Datagram Service**

The NetBIOS Datagram Service or NetBIOS-DGM or NBDGM is similar to UDP. It is used as transport layer for application protocols that requires a connectionless communication. The server will be listening in the UDP port 138.

**NetBIOS Session Service**

The NetBIOS Session Service or NetBIOS-SSN or NBSSN is similar to TCP. It can be used as transport for connected-oriented communications. It uses the 139/TCP port.

**NetBIOS Name Service**

From a pentest perspective, maybe the most interesting NetBIOS service is NBNS (NetBIOS Name Service) that listens in the port 137/UDP. This service allows to:

* Resolve NetBIOS name to an IP address
* Known the status of a NetBIOS node
* Register/Release a NetBIOS name

The NetBIOS names, in contrast with the DNS names, are not hierarchical, and only work in the local network. These names are made up of 16 bytes, where the first 15 bytes are used to store the name, in uppercase letters, and last byte indicates the type of the resource that has the name, which can be a hostname, domain name, a file service, etc. To watch the NetBIOS names of the local Windows machine, you can use the `nbtstat -n` command.

```bash
# NetBIOS names of local computer:
C:\Users\Anakin>nbtstat -n

Ethernet 2:
Node IpAddress: [192.168.100.10] Scope Id: []

                NetBIOS Local Name Table

       Name               Type         Status
    ---------------------------------------------
    WS01-10        <20>  UNIQUE      Registered
    WS01-10        <00>  UNIQUE      Registered
    CONTOSO        <00>  GROUP       Registered
```
