# 📓 02. Forests

## Forests

Using a DNS name is very useful, since it allows to create subdomains for management purposes. For example, a company can have a **root domain** called `contoso.local`, and then subdomains for different (usually big) departments, like `it.contoso.local` or `sales.contoso.local`.

{% hint style="info" %}
Active Directory offers many ways to organize your infrastructure, as you will notice, so how an organization uses subdomains varies from one to another, some create subdomains for departments, while others use them for different offices.
{% endhint %}

```
              contoso.local
                    |
            .-------'--------.
            |                |
            |                |
     it.contoso.local hr.contoso.local
            | 
            |
            |
  webs.it.contoso.local
```

This tree of domains is known as [**Forest**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ad/forests). The name of the forest is the same as the name of the root domain of the tree. See the "**Get Forest information**" section of the following resource:

{% content-ref url="../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md" %}
[ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md](../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

In a forest, each domain has its own database and its own Domain Controllers. However, **users of a domain in the forest can also access to the other domains** of the forest.

This implies that, even if a domain can be autonomous, without the need to interact with other domains, it is not isolated from a security perspective, since as we will see, user from a domain can access to resources of other domains in the same forest (by default). However, the users of a forest cannot access to resources from other forests by default, so the logical structure that can provide security isolation is the forest.

As I said before, **each domain have its own Domain Controllers**, so if a department grows incredibly, you may need dedicated Domain Controllers that process the requests of all computers in that department. You can achieve that by creating a new subdomain, and the users will still be able to access computers in others subdomains of the same forest.

### Functional modes

As well as Windows computers, domains/forest can also have their own "version", that is called [functional mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/raise-active-directory-domain-forest-functional-levels). Depending on the mode of the domain/forest, new characteristics can be used.

The modes are named based on the minimum Windows Server operative system required to work with them. There are the [following functional modes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows\_protocols/ms-adts/564dc969-6db3-49b3-891a-f2f8d0a68a7f):

* Windows2000
* Windows2000MixedDomains
* Windows2003
* Windows2008
* Windows2008R2
* Windows2012
* Windows2012R2
* Windows2016

Then if, for example, you find a domain/forest with Windows2012 mode, you can know that all the Domain Controllers are at least Windows Server 2012. You must be aware of the mode in order to use some characteristics of the domain, for example, the `Protected Users` group requires a Windows2012R2 mode.
