# 📓 04. Users

One of the key points for using Active Directory is the users management. Every organization manages its users in different ways, setting for them name formats, assigning different permissions, etc.

To easily manage the users in Active Directory, their are stored as a objects in the central database (INSERT LINK TO DATABASE IN SERVICES SECTION) that can be consulted and manipulated from any point of the domain (if you have enough rights).

## User properties <a href="#user-properties" id="user-properties"></a>

### **User Identifiers**

The user object stores many different data, but the first attributes to be taken into account are those that allows us to identify an user.

For identifying an user usually the username is used, that is stored in the **SamAccountName** attribute. Additionally, the **SID** (Security Identifier) can also be used to identifying the user.

The user SID is similar to the domain SID, and, in fact is the combination of the domain SID plus the user RID (Relative Identifier), which is the last number that appears in the user SID.

See the "**Enumerate Domain Users**" section of the following resource:

{% content-ref url="../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md" %}
[ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md](../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

Example:

```powershell
Get-ADUser Anakin

DistinguishedName : CN=Anakin,CN=Users,DC=contoso,DC=local
Enabled           : True
GivenName         : Anakin
Name              : Anakin
ObjectClass       : user
ObjectGUID        : 58ab0512-9c96-4e97-bf53-019e86fd3ed7
SamAccountName    : anakin
SID               : S-1-5-21-1372086773-2238746523-2939299801-1103
Surname           :
UserPrincipalName : anakin@contoso.local
```

In this case the domain SID is `S-1-5-21-1372086773-2238746523-2939299801` and the user RID is `1103`. Some tools display the SID in their output instead of the username (since its used in some structures like [security descriptors](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winnt/ns-winnt-security\_descriptor)), so you should be aware of its format in order to identify it.

Also, the `DistinguishedName` is used by the [LDAP API to identify the objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/desktop/ldap/distinguished-names), so if you query the database by using LDAP (which is one of the most common ways) you will probably see references to objects through its `DistinguishedName`.

### **User Secrets**

Moreover, the database also needs to store the user secrets in order to allow the Domain Controller to authenticate the user. The user password is not stored in plaintext, but the following secrets derived from it are saved:

* NT hash (and LM hash for the older accounts)
* Kerberos keys

Needless to say, that user secrets cannot be retrieved by non admin users. Not even the domain computers can access to them, but leave the authentication to the Domain Controller.

In order to get the user secrets, you need administrator privileges (or equivalent) to **dump the domain database (INSERT LINK TO NTDS.DIT DUMP)** with a dcsync attack or grabbing the `C:\Windows\NTDS\ntds.dit` file from the Domain Controller.

#### **LM/NT hashes**

The [LM and NT hashes](https://medium.com/@petergombos/lm-ntlm-net-ntlmv2-oh-my-a9b235c58ed4) are stored both in Windows local [SAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security\_Account\_Manager) and Active Directory NTDS databases to authenticate the local and domain users, respectively. These hashes, both LM and NT are 16 bytes long.

```shell
# LM and NT hashes of a password:
Password: 123456
LM hash: 44EFCE164AB921CAAAD3B435B51404EE
NT hash: 32ED87BDB5FDC5E9CBA88547376818D4
```

However, [LM hashes are pretty weak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAN\_Manager#Security\_weaknesses) so they are not used since Windows Vista/Server 2008. The [procedure to create an LM hash](https://asecuritysite.com/encryption/lmhash) is the following:

1. Convert the user password into uppercase. (This reduces the search space for a bruteforce attack).
2. If the user password is less than 14 characters is padded with NULL characters until the length is 14. If the password is more than 14 characters, then is truncated. (Is useless to have passwords of more than 14 characters).
3. The password is then split in two strings of 7 bytes each one.
4. Each 7-bytes string is used as key to encrypt the `KGS!+#$%` string using the DES cryptographic algorithm. This result in two hashes.
5. The resultant two values are concatenated in order to form the LM hash. (You can crack each part separately)

```shell
# LM hash calculation pseudocode:

upper_password = to_uppercase(password)
14_password = truncate_to_14_bytes(upper_password)

7_part1, 7_part2 = split_7(14_password)

hash1 = des(7_part1, "KGS!+#$%")
hash2 = des(7_part2, "KGS!+#$%")

lm_hash = hash1 + hash2
```

On the other hand, the NT hash is a little stronger, but a [salt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt\_\(cryptography\)) is not used to calculate it, so it can be cracked by using precomputed values (like [rainbow tables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow\_table)).

If you are curious, the NT hash is calculated by applying the [MD4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD4) algorithm (that [is obsolete](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6150)) directly to the Unicode version (specifically the UTF-16LE encoding) of the user password.

```shell
# NT hash calculation pseudocode:
nt_hash = md4(encode_in_utf_16le(password))
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Many times the NT hash is called NTLM hash, however this can be confusing since the NTLM protocol also use hashes, called NTLM hashes. In this blog an NTLM hash will be a hash of the NTLM protocol.
{% endhint %}

Many tools allow you to extract the LM and NT hashes, and they usually return an output with several lines, one per user, with the format `<username>:<rid>:<LM>:<NT>:::`. In case of LM is not being used, its value will be `aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee` (the LM hash of an empty string).

```shell
# Hashes dump format:
Administrator:500:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0:::
Guest:501:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0:::
DefaultAccount:503:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0:::
WDAGUtilityAccount:504:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:6535b87abdb112a8fc3bf92528ac01f6:::
user:1001:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:57d583aa46d571502aad4bb7aea09c70:::
```

It is important for a pentester to recognize NT hashes since, even they are not the user passwords, are used for authenticate in Windows machines, so they are very useful. They can be used to perform **Pass-The-Hash** (INSERT LINK TO Pass-The-Hash) or Overpass-the-Hash (INSERT LINK TO getTicket or Overpass-the-Hash) attacks in order to impersonate users in remote machines.

Additionally, you can try to crack the LM and NT hashes with [hashcat](https://hashcat.net) to recover the original password. If you are lucky and the LM hash is present, this should be quickly.

#### **Kerberos keys**

* AES 256 key: Used by the [AES256-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3962) algorithm. This is the one commonly used by Kerberos, and the one a pentester should use in order to avoid triggering alarms.
* AES 128 key: Used by the [AES128-CTS-HMAC-SHA1-96](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3962) algorithm.
* DES key: Used by the [deprecated](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6649) [DES-CBC-MD5](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3961#section-6.2.1) algorithm.
* RC4 key: This is the **NT hash** of the user used by the [RC4-HMAC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4757) algorithm.

The Kerberos keys can be used to ask for a Kerberos ticket that represents the user in Kerberos authentication. There are several different keys, and different ones are used for different Kerberos encryption support:

Apart from the LM/NT hashes, the **Kerberos keys**, derived from the user password and used in the Kerberos authentication protocol, are stored.

```
secretsdump.py 'contoso.local/Administrator@192.168.100.2' -just-dc-user anakin
Impacket v0.9.21 - Copyright 2020 SecureAuth Corporation

Password:
[*] Dumping Domain Credentials (domain\uid:rid:lmhash:nthash)
[*] Using the DRSUAPI method to get NTDS.DIT secrets
contoso.local\anakin:1103:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:cdeae556dc28c24b5b7b14e9df5b6e21:::
[*] Kerberos keys grabbed
contoso.local\anakin:aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96:ecce3d24b29c7f044163ab4d9411c25b5698337318e98bf2903bbb7f6d76197e
contoso.local\anakin:aes128-cts-hmac-sha1-96:18fe293e673950214c67e9f9fe753198
contoso.local\anakin:des-cbc-md5:fbba85fbb63d04cb
[*] Cleaning up...
```

These keys can be used in a **Pass-The-Key (INSERT LINK TO Pass-The-Key)** attack to retrieve a ticket for the impersonated user. Then you can use that Kerberos ticket to authenticate against different services of the domain on behalf of the user.

### **UserAccountControl & Other user properties**

One interesting property of the user class is the [UserAccountControl](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/useraccountcontrol-manipulate-account-properties) (UAC) (do not confuse it with the User Account Control mechanism to avoid executing elevated programs in Windows machines).

The UserAccountControl property contains a **series of flags** that are very relevant for the security and the domain and used in many attacks mentioned in this book.&#x20;

To see the most interesting properties from an attacker's perspective on users, you can refer to the following resource:

INSERT LINK TO: User Properties Summary

## Important Users

To consult the users there are several options, like the `net user /domain` command, or Powershell. There is no need to have an special privilege to list users, any user can do it.&#x20;

More commands to enumerate the users of a domain can be found in the following resource (section "**Enum Domain Users**"):

{% content-ref url="../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md" %}
[ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md](../ad-enumeration-cheat-sheet.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

In a test environment (such as a CTF), there will be few users, but in a real engagement there will be hundreds or thousands of users. So it should be important to distinguish which are the really important ones. This could be a little tricky since it depends on the organization, but usually members of the IT team use to have privileged users, they need it to do their work.

Moreover, by default the **built-in** `Administrator` **user is the most privileged account of the domain**. It can perform any action in any computer. So if you are able to compromise this account, you can have total control of the domain (and even the forest by using [the SID history attack](https://adsecurity.org/?p=1640)).

Additionally, the `krbtgt` account is very important too. Its secrets (NT hash and Kerberos keys) are used to encrypt the tickets (specifically the TGTs) used by Kerberos that allows to authenticate users. If you are able to compromise the `krbtgt` account, you will be able of create [Golden Tickets](https://en.hackndo.com/kerberos-silver-golden-tickets/). Usually, this account can only be compromised by dumping the domain database, since its only used in the Domain Controllers, which will require that you have administrator privileges in the domain.

## Computer accounts <a href="#computer-accounts" id="computer-accounts"></a>

Another thing to take into account is that in a organization, each person has its own user, and even certain people like the IT department could have more than user per person to perform different tasks. Moreover, also **each computer of the domain has its own user**, since they also need to perform their own actions in the domain.

The difference between user accounts and computers accounts is that the firsts are stored as instances of [User class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/c-user) in the database whereas the others are stored as instances of [Computer class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/c-computer) (which is a subclass of User class). Moreover the computer accounts names are the computer hostname finished with a dollar sign `$`.

You can check it by executing the following command:

```powershell
Get-ADObject -LDAPFilter "objectClass=User" -Properties SamAccountName | select SamAccountName

SamAccountName
--------------
Administrator
Guest
DC01$
krbtgt
anakin
WS01-10$
WS02-7$
DC02$
han
POKEMON$
```

As you can see, there are many more users than using the `Get-ADUser` command, since subclasses of User class are now included. You can appreciate that new accounts finish with a dollar sign (`$`) and seems to have a computer name. For example, `DC01$` and `DC02$` for the Domain Controllers and `WS01-10$` and `WS02-7$` for the workstations.

Moreover, the computer objects also saved information about their operating system, that can be retrieved from the attributes `OperatingSystem` or `OperatingSystemVersion`.

Also, many organizations have rules to choose the name of the computers as well as the users, so if you are able to make sense of the names, you may be aware of the use of the computer and user accounts and which of the can be privileged or contain access to sensible information. Additionally you can check another attributes of the objects like `Description` in order to find more information there (and even cleartext passwords). The [Find-DomainObjectPropertyOutlier](https://gist.github.com/HarmJ0y/184f9822b195c52dd50c379ed3117993) Cmdlet of [Powerview](https://github.com/BC-SECURITY/Empire/blob/master/data/module\_source/situational\_awareness/network/powerview.ps1) can be useful for that purpose.

## Trust accounts <a href="#trust-accounts" id="trust-accounts"></a>

However there is also the `POKEMON$` account that appears in both `Get-ADUser` and `Get-ADObject`, but whose name is finished by a dollar sign. That could be normal user (there is no problem with creating usernames finished with `$`), however, as we have seen previously, there is a trust with the `poke.mon` domain.

When an trust is established, an associated user object is created in each domain to store the trust key. The name of the user is the NetBIOS name of the other domain, finished in $ (similar to a computer account name). For example, in case of the trust between the domains FOO and BAR, the FOO domain would store the trust key in the BAR$ user, and the BAR domain would store it in the FOO$ user.

```powershell
# List trust accounts in domain:
Get-ADUser  -LDAPFilter "(SamAccountName=*$)" | select SamAccountName

SamAccountName
--------------
POKEMON$
```

This `POKEMON$` user object is used to store the trust keys, which are the NT hash or Kerberos keys (one of other is used depending on the context). If you can **get the secrets** (LINK TO: LSA Secrets dumping) of this account, you can create [inter-realm Kerberos tickets](https://adsecurity.org/?p=1588).
